# 学习笔记之Amazon Web Services (AWS)

* [Amazon Web Services (AWS) - Cloud Computing Services](https://aws.amazon.com/?nc2=h_lg)
* [Amazon Web Services - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Web_Services)
  * Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a subsidiary of Amazon providing on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered pay-as-you-go basis. These cloud computing web services provide a variety of basic abstract technical infrastructure and distributed computing building blocks and tools. One of these services is Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), which allows users to have at their disposal a virtual cluster of computers, available all the time, through the Internet. AWS's version of virtual computers emulates most of the attributes of a real computer, including hardware central processing units (CPUs) and graphics processing units (GPUs) for processing; local/RAM memory; hard-disk/SSD storage; a choice of operating systems; networking; and pre-loaded application software such as web servers, databases, and customer relationship management (CRM).
  * The AWS technology is implemented at server farms throughout the world, and maintained by the Amazon subsidiary. Fees are based on a combination of usage (known as a "Pay-as-you-go" model), hardware, operating system, software, or networking features chosen by the subscriber required availability, redundancy, security, and service options. Subscribers can pay for a single virtual AWS computer, a dedicated physical computer, or clusters of either. As part of the subscription agreement,[10] Amazon provides security for subscribers' systems. AWS operates from many global geographical regions including 6 in North America.[11]
  * Amazon markets AWS to subscribers as a way of obtaining large scale computing capacity more quickly and cheaply than building an actual physical server farm.[12] All services are billed based on usage, but each service measures usage in varying ways. As of 2017, AWS owns a dominant 33% of all cloud (IaaS, PaaS) while the next two competitors Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud have 18%, and 9% respectively, according to Synergy Group.[13][14]
* [Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)](https://aws.amazon.com/documentdb/)
  * Fast, scalable, highly available MongoDB-compatible database service
  * [What Is Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB Compatibility) - Amazon DocumentDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/documentdb/latest/developerguide/what-is.html)
    * Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility) is a fast, reliable, and fully managed database service. Amazon DocumentDB makes it easy to set up, operate, and scale MongoDB-compatible databases in the cloud. With Amazon DocumentDB, you can run the same application code and use the same drivers and tools that you use with MongoDB.
    * Before using Amazon DocumentDB, you should review the concepts and features described in How It Works. After that, complete the steps in Get Started Guide.
* [Amazon DocumentDB - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_DocumentDB)
  * Amazon DocumentDB is a fully managed proprietary NoSQL database service that supports document data structures and MongoDB workloads. As a document database, Amazon DocumentDB makes it easy to store, query, and index JSON data. Amazon DocumentDB is currently available in 14 AWS regions of AWS.[2][3]
* [AWS Lambda – Serverless Compute - Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/)
  * AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers, creating workload-aware cluster scaling logic, maintaining event integrations, or managing runtimes. With Lambda, you can run code for virtually any type of application or backend service - all with zero administration. Just upload your code as a ZIP file or container image, and Lambda automatically and precisely allocates compute execution power and runs your code based on the incoming request or event, for any scale of traffic. You can set up your code to automatically trigger from over 200 AWS services and SaaS applications or call it directly from any web or mobile app. You can write Lambda functions in your favorite language (Node.js, Python, Go, Java, and more) and use both serverless and container tools, such as AWS SAM or Docker CLI, to build, test, and deploy your functions.
  * [AWS Lambda – Getting Started](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/getting-started/)
    * Here you will find tutorials and documentation on how to get started building serverless applications with AWS Lambda. You will also learn about Serverless Application Developer Tools like the AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) or AWS Cloud9.
    * Another easy way to get started is with the AWS Serverless Application Repository, which enables you to quickly deploy pre-built applications.
    * To dive deeper into specific use cases, you will find resources for web app development, data processing, mobile backend development, and edge computing.
* [AWS Lambda - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AWS_Lambda)
  * AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform provided by Amazon as a part of Amazon Web Services. It is a computing service that runs code in response to events and automatically manages the computing resources required by that code. It was introduced in November 2014.[1]
  * Node.js, Python, Java, Go,[2] Ruby,[3] and C# (through .NET) are all officially supported as of 2018. In late 2018, custom runtime support[4] was added to AWS Lambda.
  * AWS Lambda supports running native Linux executables via calling out from a supported runtime such as Node.js.[5] For example, Haskell code can be run on Lambda.[6]
  * AWS Lambda was designed for use cases such as image or object uploads to Amazon S3, updates to DynamoDB tables, responding to website clicks, or reacting to sensor readings from an IoT connected device. AWS Lambda can also be used to automatically provision back-end services triggered by custom HTTP requests, and "spin down" such services when not in use, to save resources. These custom HTTP requests are configured in AWS API Gateway, which can also handle authentication and authorization in conjunction with AWS Cognito.
  * Unlike Amazon EC2, which is priced by the hour but metered by the second, AWS Lambda is metered by rounding up to the nearest millisecond with no minimum execution time.
  * In 2019, at AWS' annual cloud computing conference (AWS re:Invent), the AWS Lambda team announced "Provisioned Concurrency", a feature that "keeps functions initialized and hyper-ready to respond in double-digit milliseconds."[7] The Lambda team described Provisioned Concurrency as "ideal for implementing interactive services, such as web and mobile backends, latency-sensitive microservices, or synchronous APIs."[8]

## RESOURCES

* [还不知道 AWS 是什么？这 11 个重点带你认识 AWS ！ (qq.com)](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/E7nkDxM3KbnXhqto0ZbkyQ)
  * [A Sneak Peek Into Amazon Web Services Cloud (AWS) - DZone Cloud](https://dzone.com/articles/a-sneak-peek-into-amazon-web-services-cloud-aws)
